[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi and welcome to our video.

We're going to be talking about property today. So let me go through the arduous process.

I'm sharing my screen with you.

Almost there. Great.

Okay, so. This past summer, uh, just a month ago, one of my sons and I, um, uh, backpacked across Isle Royale.

Uh, very remote, just 85 mile long island in Lake Superior.

You have to take, uh, we had to take a charter,

a little tiny plane seaplane to take us there and pick us up at the end, other end of the island to take us home.

Um, this is one of the tent sites.

And we'll come back to that. Well, I promise.

So what is property?

Well. Property actually has two definitions.

One is a thing and lawyers like to speak Latin.

So we say raise the thing in which somebody has a property interest or.

The property relationship itself. And there's all kinds of property relationships.

So let's take our little person here and their house.

When we use the word property, we might mean the house.

We might mean the relationship between our person and their house.

Okay. So what are some of the natures what are some of the aspects of a property relationship?

They're all different. But we tend to think of three different things.

Um, exclusion. Like keep calm.

To what extent can you keep other people from using, consuming, you know, doing something with this property?

We think of Dominion, which is what can you do with this property?

And we think of disposal. Can you. To get rid of.

Use up this property. Right. So our person in their house, they can, um.

To the extent allowable by law to keep other people from using their house.

You can say, no, you may not enter or you're my friend, come in and you're a salesperson.

You can't come in. Dominion.

They can use their house for whatever they want again, within the boundaries of the rules.

So can you. Can can this person never party?

Absolutely. If the party's too loud, if the parties to something, then that might break a rule that might not be allowed.

Not because of property law, but because of some other kind of law.

Disposal. If this person owns this house, for example, they want to.

They can tear it down. It's their house. I've said that there's many kinds of property relationships.

This isn't a complete list because, as you'll read in pop off, new kinds of property interests are always being figured out, right?

But these are probably the most common, and the ones you're most likely to run into, uh, in your life and in business in particular.

So the first is ownership. That's what a lot of people think about when they think about property, right?

Um, and sometimes we call it fee simple or freehold because we like to be fancy.

A rent or lease. My guess is that most of you are renting a room in a college house right now from the University of Pennsylvania Trust.

If you, you know, give something to somebody and say, hey, take care of this for me.

I give you my car keys and I say, hey, hold on to these keys for me for a minute.

Then I have entrusted those keys to you. You've entrusted somebody else, and they have a trust relationship with that thing with the is.

An easement is a very specific, uh, property interest that allows for a very specified use of piece of property encumbrance or a lean.

That's the security interest in property. Um.

Reversion and remainder. Remainder is is kind of a catch all phrase for any kind of property interest that's left over reversion.

Hang on to for a second, because most of these kinds of property relationships.

Most of these interests can be held in a number of ways.

And again, the most important are these three here.

So jointly or in tenancy if you have a roommate then you are tenants in common in the room that the both of you were or more are renting uh,

in your coach house. Um, if you are married, most states in the United States say that marital property is held jointly, right?

Um, a life estate.

Is it property interests that exists for the period of a particular person in a designated person's life when that person's life ends?

So it is a property interest.

And a contingent interest is a property interest that exists so long as some other thing is going on, some other factor exists.

So let's take this. Our person and their house could be that they own this house.

Sure. And if they own the house, then they can exclude others from using it.

Right? They can, um, do what they want to with the house.

Uh, again, within the bounds of the rules. And they can tear it down.

Um, renting or leasing? Um.

They can keep most people out. They can exclude most people, but they can't usually exclude the renter or the renters agents.

For example, if you are renting a room from in your college house, um, the rental agreement says Penn and its agents,

which is generally, um, hotel staff or maintenance people can enter your room.

Right? Um, and in terms of disposal, you can engage in the normal use, which will involve some wear and tear.

You will to some extent destroy what you're renting, but only a bit.

Only what's normal for normal use? Um, trust.

Trust. There's a lot of exclusion going on. If I give you my car keys and say, hey, hold on to this for a minute.

I very much hope that you exclude others, that you say, no, you cannot use these car keys while I'm holding them.

Right. Um. Dominion. Depending on what, um, I asked you to do.

Let's say our person is a neighbor. This isn't their house.

It's their neighbor's house. And their neighbor said, hey, can you take care?

We're traveling for six months. Can you take care of our house? Um, you know, our person isn't being paid.

Neighbors don't pay each other to take care of their house, but they do have a trust property interest, right?

They can exclude others. They should exclude others.

Uh, they can use it for what was intended to water the plants, make sure everything's, you know, cleaning and working.

Um, and in terms of disposal, again, only the normal wear and tear for whatever that trust relationship involves an easement.

Uh, let's say, again, this isn't our person's house.

It's their neighbor's house, our personal lives next door.

But to get to the bus stop, the only way to get to the road is to walk across this houses his lawn.

Well, our person could acquire a property interest called an easement that that

enables that allows our person to walk across this lawn to get to the bus stop,

to get to the road. Those are very common in property, by the way.

Are in real property houses and things like that. An encumbrance or a lean.

Let's say that our person is a fix his air conditioners, and they've just fixed the air conditioner in this house.

Um, that's an expensive thing to do until our person is paid by law.

Our person has a lean on this house. They have a security interest in this house, and if they don't get paid in a reasonable amount of time,

they can actually force the sale of this house.

You have to go to court, you have to go to the sheriff,

etc. they can force the sale of this house and collect what they're owed from the proceeds of this house.

Let's say our person is a banker and they lent $2 million to the owner of this house.

They may take a property interest in this house as a security, as collateral for, um, the loan that they gave to the owner of the house.

All right. Um, let us say that our person owns this house and they love this house, but they love their grandparents even more.

Well, they may say to their grandparent. I really want you to be comfortable.

I don't want you to worry about things for the rest of your life. So. For the rest of your life.

This house is yours, right?

Live conveyed a life estate in this house to their grandparent.

But our person has a property interest when unfortunately, the grandparent passes on.

Right. Our person gets the house fee.

Simple to until that unfortunate event happens.

The property interested our person has in the house is called a reversion.

And just like any other property interest, if our person wants to, they can transfer the reversion to somebody else.

They can sell it, they can rent it. They could convert in another way.

Let's say that our person owns this house and their professor at Penn.

So they really, really love books.

And they think that reading is really important. Well, they can convey a contingent interest to the city of Philadelphia.

They could say, hey, Philadelphia, as long as you use this house as a library.

It's yours. Right? Well, that means it's contingent interest is dependent on some other thing going on.

If the city of Philadelphia stops using a house as a library, it reverts.

It goes back to our person. So the city of Philly has a contingent interest.

Our person has a reversion interest.

Okay. Well.

An obvious question then is how do you create property interests? In the legal world, we say.

How do you perfect a property interest?

And there's lots of ways, um, you can create property that's very important with intellectual property.

Property can be gifted, property can be purchased and find property.

Belmont is a fancy word for.

Um, when we talked about trust. If I give you my car keys, I've created a property interest that you have through Belmont.

A confusion is important in fields like, um, uh, uh, chemical processing, oil and gas.

Um, you may not run into it a lot unless you get into those fields, but confusion happens when.

Two separate rays, two different things become so intermingled that we can't separate them, right?

So in an oil pipeline, for example. Right.

And so a new property interest created, and that proper interest is held in tenant C or jointly by all of the original people with property interests.

And then of course, property interests can be created by law.

So our person when they fixed the air conditioning the line was created by law.

Nobody had to do anything. The largest says this exists.

So all of these means of perfecting a property are operations of laws.

Now, it's only when it's by law that the law just says boom, it exists.

Otherwise people have to do things. But there are functions of the law.

And it's really important to remember then that possession is not.

9/10 of the law of those of you for whom English is the first language.

Frequently hear that possession is 9/10 of the law. It's not. In fact, one of the most amazing things about property law.

One of the coolest things about property law is that it creates non possessor interests.

You don't have to hold on to something to have a property interest, which means you can do so much more with your property.

And I'd be this is just an EST off the top of my head.

I'm guessing that. Three quarters, 75%.

Again, this is just a guess, but a whole lot of the property interests held by a business are non possessor easily most of them.

All right. So don't think you have to hang on to something to unless the law requires it.

And again you'll be reading about that in pop off. All right.

I said we'd come back to the slide. Um. Isle Royale.

Uh, this tent site is, uh, chicken bone.

Uh, it's on a ridge between a lake, on an island in a lake, between a really big lake and a swampy area, and a bunch of beaver ponds and beaver dams.

So let me ask you some questions. Uh, there you go. Look at the top of this picture.

The clouds in the sky. Right. Can you perfect a property interest in the clouds in the sky?

And I'll tell you the answer. No. You can't. My son in the very middle of the picture.

Can you prefer the property interest in my son? No.

You can't. No. Of course. Historically, in the beginning of the United States, um, there were people who were treated as rays.

And that obviously doesn't comport with reality. Obviously it was.

Not only not realistic, it was horrible and immoral.

And the tensions created by the difference in the law, property law and that reality are still the echoes of that are still causing problems today.

Um, look at my sons. The foot on the right, down under his hat, you can see a very large six liter water bag.

It was hot. Hot on this particular trip.

Right. Um. If you've said you cannot prefect a property interest on my son.

But the water in that bag is property, and he owns it. You can convey it to someone else when he drinks that water.

Is it still property when it's in, you know, as it goes inside of him?

Uh, you can see the we're cooking our wonderful freeze dried meals.

Same question with the food the beaver. It was really fun to watch the beavers on the.

It would have been the right side of this picture. Down, down below the ridge.

Is there a property interest in those beavers? Right.

So a very important thing to understand about property is that not everything should be property.

And some. Times that creates when people try to perfect the property interests, it creates problems.

And not everything can be property, right?

You cannot perfect a property interest in that sky and in those clouds, even though both are very valuable.

All right. How do you extinguish property interest? Well transfer.

You know, we often think of sale, but gift is just as important.

Abandoned abandonment occurs when one purposefully so, you know,

doesn't control the property anymore and at the very same time, in their mind says, I don't want this to be my property.

Um, interestingly, in Major League Baseball, when a baseball is hit out of the field of play,

uh, it's a considered abandoned property in Major League Baseball.

No longer controls it, and they don't want it anymore.

Um, consumption or use. We frequently destroy or property owners by using up the property.

Uh, destruction. Um. Similar.

Dissipation. Similar. Um. Basement.

When I give you my car keys, when I say hold on to these for a little bit, I've diminished my property interest.

Right? I mean, given up every property has changed my property interest.

And then, of course, by law. So, um, condemnation, very common, uh, complaint in business.

Um, and the seizure and. Fine. All right, let's go back to that water bag.

Um. These are great water bags. I like them a lot. So I've purchased a lot of them from RPI.

I've also given a lot of them, um, to my kids, especially.

Right. So I created a proper interest. I perfected a property interest.

By purchasing it, I extinguished my property interest by gifting it.

Right. Abandoned. Uh, I've seen a lot of abandoned gear.

Not on Earth, because it is so remote. There aren't very many people there.

But on other backpacking trips. Other hikes, um, right.

Consumption are used. Again, think of the water was in this bag.

And when my son consumed it, when he drank it, that that extinguished his property interest in it, it became part of him destruction.

He could have poured the water on the ground. Dissipation.

Again. These are great bags. But it was well over 100 Fahrenheit for the whole five days we were out there.

Um, water evaporated, it dissipated, and we no longer had a property that became part of those clouds basement.

Um, at several points along the hike, my son and I gave each other water bags, um, depending on what was going on.

Right. By law, what if there had been a forest fire on Earl and the, um, firefighters had said,

we need this gear, and the state empowers us to take it from you.

Condemnation or what if I use the water? What?

I would never do this. But what if I used the water bag to assault somebody and the state said, you use that water bag in a terrible way.

We're going to take it away from you, right? Again, these are all functions of law, right?

These all are rules applied to facts to determine whether or not a property interest has been extinguished.

Okay. That's it. Now I'm going to go through the extremely arduous process of of signing off and getting rid of all these screens.

You can leave now. Enjoy the reading and I look forward to seeing you in class.

Okay. Yeah. My.


