[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hello and welcome to our video on agency.

I bear with me for one second while I go through the very interesting process.

Of bringing up. A PowerPoint.

So what is agency? Um.

Agency is the authority, the power to represent another person and entity and organization and to act on their behalf.

Okay. So there's all kinds of agents, all kinds of agents in our world.

Um, parents sometimes are agents for their children, and sometimes, uh, children are agents for their parents.

Um, for example, if a, uh, child.

Purchase is a necessity at a store where the parent has an account.

The child is acting as an agent for that parent.

This is the parents account. Uh, real estate agents.

We all know about them. We read about them.

We may never have interacted with one or know any, but we know they're out there and they represent another.

They they have authority to represent another in a perfecting and interest in real property.

Sports agents. Entertainment agents? Um.

We've seen movies about them. We certainly know they're out there. But it's not just people with the word agent attached to their vocation.

A lawyers are often agents, not just in a trial like we see in this picture, but more often in negotiating a transaction,

in signing a contract in, in, in a all kinds of building of, of business relationships, um, salespeople are often very often agents.

They represent the principal. They, um, me they often sign the contract for buying and selling on behalf of the principal.

There's also agents in that in that are agents just because they are in an organization or they have a certain

position in or relationship with an organization in the organizations we're interested in or business associations.

So a board of directors, every director is an agent of that corporation, um, a partnership.

Every partner is an agent. A general partner, uh, in a um limited partnership is an agent, right?

So there's lots and lots and lots of instances of agency and lots and lots and lots of locations or positions that involve agency.

Contract is the fundament of business, but agency is the fundament of business associations.

Business organizations, uh, they simply could not work without um,

agents and agency in general is a really, really cool and wonderful tool for business.

Uh, agency allows for, um, a principal to be conducting 5 or 6 transactions at once.

Um, if you have an agent, you can go to sleep and your business is still getting done.

Uh, so you can be doing things across the world or on both sides of the world at the same time.

Agency is the fundament of business organizations, but it's also just in general, an awesome tool for business.

How is agency created? One way is by a communication from a principal to an agent.

All right. We call this actual authority.

So you say to your friend, hey, I really want to sign up for this activity, but.

I really want to go to office hours because office hours are so awesome and so interesting and so fun.

So could you sign me up for this activity?

You, the principal, have communicated to your friend, the agent,

that you would like your friend to represent you, to stand in your place when dealing with a third party.

The activity. Right. So a communication from a principal to an agent creates actual authority in.

Interacting with that third party. Apparent authority is created by a communication from the principal to that third party.

So let's say you say to, um, your friend, a group of friends.

Hey, I really want to work out with you all. How were you going to get home over winter break?

And I really want to go with you guys, you know, home. But I want to go to office hours because office hours are so interesting and so fun.

So, um, Leslie is going to, you know, work it out with your.

Right. You've communicated to the third parties.

That this other person, Leslie, is going to stand in your place in working out how you're going to get home.

That's apparent authority. Now, for either actual authority or apparent authority, the communication can be express.

In your case, it was. You used words. Hey, sign me up for this activity.

But it can also be implied. An implied communication occurs when the behaviors of the principal.

The activities of the principal.

The custom of the principal. You know all all the things that we look at.

You can communicate either actual or apparent authority.

The one communication I mean, obviously a third party can could communicate to somebody and say,

hey, you're an agent, but I don't even know how that would happen.

The one communication that does not create authority is a communication from a putative agent to the third party.

So if someone comes up to you and says, hey, I'm the agent for P.

Right. It's on you if you're, you know, conducting business or just in life in general.

But if you're conducting business and someone says, hey, I'm the agent for PE.

You need to make sure if you do want to interact with P.

If you don't, just ignore that person. If you do want to interact with P, you want AB.

Excuse me. Evidence that this is in fact an agent, or you want a communication from P the principle that this is an agent.

All right. There's another situation that creates agency.

And I use the word situation, not communication. We talked about, uh, board members for corporation are agents.

Officers are agents. Managers or agents. Uh, most and almost everybody who works for a business firm has some degree of agency.

It can be really tiny, but they have some degree of agency.

Uh, partners are agents, right? So that isn't a communication is just that's, you know, the way.

That's the way the law operates. The, you know, corporations are legal constructs.

Partnerships are legal constructs that all the business associations we talked about have some aspect of legal construct to them.

And often that involves agency. Okay. An agent's authority is limited to the authority described in the communication.

So if the communication is express, it's the words in the contract or the authorization.

Hey, sign me up for this activity. Right?

Your friend's authority is limited to signing you up for that activity.

Uh, if the communication is implied, it's a reasonable interpretation of the principles behavior or the principles customs or activities, etc.

Um, if the agency exists because of the relationship and that comes up in the reading that we are doing for this class,

um, it's what's normal for that relationship, right?

So it's normal. For that particular relationship.

That's the limits of authority. If an agent exceeds their authority, then the principal.

And the third party aren't bound, right?

If the agent. Um. Is a sales agent for a principal who makes bolts,

and they enter into a contract with a construction company to supply bolts and nails, and their authority is limited to bolts.

Then neither the principal nor the third party are bound by any, you know, contract that the agent entered into on behalf of the principal.

No principle can ratify you. Hey, sign me up for that activity.

Friend signs you up for two activities. You can say, wow.

Actually, that. That's cool. I want to do that activity and you can ratify that decision, but you don't have to.

And the third party certainly doesn't have to agree to ratification, but the principal can ratify.

Right.

Um, and if there are damages that flow from the um agent exceeding their authority, then the agent is liable for any damages to the third party.

So, uh, the construction company relied on getting bolts and nails.

Um, it the failure to deliver nails, uh, caused delay in the construction, which made them liable for some penalty phase or something.

Um, the third the agent is liable to that third party can.

All right. Lastly. An agent has fiduciary duties to a principal to their principal.

The word fiduciary means having something to do with trust, and there's lots of fiduciary duty responsible relationships out there in the world.

One of them is agency. An agent has fiduciary relationships, so they have fiduciary duties to the principal.

And in the case of agency, those duties fall into three kind of buckets three broad categories.

So an agent has a fiduciary duty of loyalty to their principal.

That means that an agent has to act in the best interest of the principal.

The best interest of the principal comes first.

That means no self-dealing. If a conflict of interest arises, don't act, disclose, and then get instructions from the principal.

Right. In all cases, the interests of the principal comes first.

An agent has a fiduciary duty of care. Which means basically do a really good job.

Right?

And doing a really good job in this instance means keeping records of records that are usable by the principal that the principal can understand.

It also means confidentiality.

Now, obviously, things that are meant to be kept confidential are that responsibility is part of the responsibility of any agent.

But it also means just keeping the, the, the, the information of the business activities of the communications from the principal confidential.

An agent, even as a principal doesn't say, hey, this is confidential.

An agent can't, you know, walk around saying, hey, I'm a I'm an agent for X, not X form former Twitter, but x X Corporation, Y Corporation.

They can walk around and say I'm a region N boy.

Um, they're experiencing a short cash shortfall or oh, uh, things are going swell there.

Um, they just signed this particular contract or hey, when they told me, be an agent.

You know, I can't do that, right? And then finally, uh, the third category is a fiduciary duty of disclosure.

So any material information related to, you know, anything material to the agency relationship, the activities,

the fall within the agency relationship, um, need to be disclosed, or, you know, the there's a duty to disclose those to the principal.

And if the principal asks for any information, material or not, um, that's again related to, you know, salient to part of the agency relationship.

Then the agent has a fiduciary duty to, to respond, to disclose that information.

These duties are not and should not be thought of as burdensome.

Agency is voluntary. An agent takes on this relationship.

It's not forced on the agent. You do not have to accept that job.

You don't have to take that job. Right. You do not have to sign the contract making you an agent.

You do not have to represent this person or entity or organization.

Your friend says, hey, can you you know, some people actually you don't have to do that.

You may really feel like you should because they're your friend, but you don't have to.

It's voluntary. This isn't something that's forced on this poor agent.

It's part of agency, and it's super important to remember this is not something you can wiggle out of.

Poorly constructed instructions do not relieve the agent of fiduciary duties.

These duties are separate from the instructions.

All right. That communication doesn't unless it explicitly says, hey, I don't want you to be loyal.

Right? These are separate things. All right.

That's quickly agency. Um, again, the case for that, we're reading a lot of this comes up.

Uh, and as always, feel free to ask any questions.

Now, I am going to go through the laborious process of shutting all this down.

You feel free to leave this video and I'll see you in class.

Have a great time.


