[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi. Welcome to another video.

Um, today we're going to talk about contracts specifically what is and what creates a contract.

So let's go through the.

Uh. Special process of sharing the screen.

All right. One more step.

There we go. What is a contract?

So we're studying in a common law system. And in a common law system, a contract is an enforceable promise.

Everything flows from this. This is the most critical thing for you to remember.

A contract is an enforceable promise.

Okay, so what makes a promise enforceable?

We all make dozens of promises every day.

What makes a promise enforceable?

What makes it a contract? Um.

This is the traditional bargain model. That it requires for things.

The mutual assent consideration.

Legality of object capacity. Right.

There's other ways of making a promise enforceable that are very important.

Um, particularly if you're involved in the sale of goods.

Or if you, you know, regularly purchase things like that.

And in those circumstances, it's a function of law.

The law says, uh, you know, if this kind of thing is going on in this, there's a contract.

Okay. But let's let's start with let's just study the traditional bargain model.

And under the traditional bargain model, these four things. So capacity capacity is the ability to do.

An adult human being has the ability to do. Right.

That doesn't mean that one has to be an adult. Um, you may have heard of, uh, pop musician named Michael Jackson.

Uh, Michael Jackson entered into multimillion dollar contracts when he was a child.

But the courts determined that with a lot of counseling and help and assistance, not, you know, from to,

because of the circumstances that he had the ability to do an adult, um, does, for the purposes of entering into a contract legally to object.

Um, just means that the object of the contract, what the promise is about, or the effects of the promise have to be legal and not socially damaging.

So, uh, a promise to kill someone is not going to be enforceable.

Um, unless, of course, someone is, um, in a circumstance where, like, being an executioner in a, in a state that still kills people.

Consideration is a involves bargaining and exchange.

Right? Um, and in many senses, this is just a token, right?

The parties say we bargained for this. There's an exchange here, right?

But it it it underlines that this is a promise that special.

It's going to be a contract, not just a contract that, you know, I mean, not just a promise that you made.

Um. Hey, you run into someone on the walk.

Hey, uh, let's get together. Oh, yeah, we will.

We will is a promise. But it's just a promise.

It's not a contract. Uh. Mutual assent.

Meeting of the minds. How do we determine if there's a meeting of the minds?

We generally require offer and acceptance.

And offer manifests a willingness to be bound.

Right. The offer manifest just means it looks like so.

An offer looks like the party wants to be involved in a promise or set of promises that are enforceable.

They're willing to be bound by their promise or other promises, and the offer creates a way for the offering to accept.

All right. Acceptance is done in that way.

However, way the author has indicated.

And then if offer doesn't indicate indicated specifically, then we can infer if there is or is not a way to accept.

An offer or, excuse me, an acceptance. Just like an offer.

Looks like the the offer he wants to be back on.

Wants to be involves with enforceable promises.

And then. Not just to be bound, but bound by all the terms of the offer.

If if someone you know makes an offer to you, as in a business context.

So it's a very complicated offer. There's 500 different promises involved, and you want to be bound by 250 of them, but not the other 215.

Uh. Well. And you say that to the party.

That doesn't create a contract. Now you've made the offer.

You've said, uh, these 250 promises.

I want to be bound by them. And if you want to be bound by them, great contract.

Okay. So.

I will sell you my shares for us $8,000.

All right. This is an offer. It manifests the willingness beyond I will sell you my shares and it creeps away to accept.

Now, again, we can infer acceptance, either by promising.

I promise I'll pay you 8000 or $80,000.

Or by handing the person $80,000.

Right? But what would you offer me for my shares?

That is not an offer, right? It doesn't look like the parties willing to be bound.

It doesn't create. You know there's no way to accept, right?

Power of acceptance is terminated by. The death of the offer or.

By timely revocation the offer or says I revoke or you know.

No, you can't accept this anymore. Or if the offer re learns of facts inconsistent with the offer.

Um and. Let's say that, um, I offer to sell you, uh, 500 acres of land that's zoned for building factories.

Right? And you read in the newspaper the next day that there was a huge landslide, huge sinkhole, and that 500 acres no longer exists.

Well, that's a fact inconsistent with the offering.

It terminates your power of acceptance of my offer. All right.

All right, just a couple more. Just a couple more things. Uh, the first is that a contract is formed at the moment of acceptance.

So if and only if you promise to mow, mow lawn, I promise I will give you $50.

All right. The moment you say, I promise there's a contract.

Or if we're talking about those circumstances when the law creates the contract,

let's say that it's a regular delivery of sale of goods that falls within a body of law called the, um, UCC or some other state law.

Then whenever the law says the moment the contract has been formed, that's when the contract is formed.

But under the traditional bargain model, moment of acceptance, just so you can't say someone offers you a job, you say, I accept, you go home.

There's three other offers there for jobs. You like those better. You can't come back and say, uh, I unaccepted you've formed a contract.

Thing. All right. There's lots of lots of ways of dividing up contracts.

And all of them are important. Most of them aren't relevant to what we're talking about.

This way is right. Contracts can either be unilateral or bilateral.

So unilateral contracts, there's only one promise or set of promises.

Only one party has made a promise, right?

So this offer, if and only if you build a microwave tower that meets certain specifications, I promise I will give you a million U.S. dollars.

Right? That manifests the willingness to balance and offer it creates.

It is a way to accept if and only if you build a microwave tower.

So the moment of acceptance occurs when the offering has built a microwave tower.

At that moment, a contract is formed.

There's one promise in this contract. I promise I will give you us $1 million.

And that's an enforceable promise. It's a contract, a bilateral contract.

Is created when there's two promises or sets of promises, right?

When we accept the offer to enter a bilateral contract by making the requested promise.

If and only if so, there's no other way.

You promised to build a microwave tower that meets specs.

I promise I will give you a million U.S. dollars. Right?

Manifested willingness to be bound and in it creates a way of accepting it.

It is an offer. If the offer says great, I promise I will build a microwave tower that builds that meet specs.

At that moment, there's a contract. Now it's interesting.

If the offeree doesn't say a single thing and doesn't communicate or, you know in any way with the offer and secretly builds the microwave tower,

they haven't accepted, they have not accepted, and no contract has been formed.

Right. Because again, look at this offer if and only if you promise.

Right. So when the offer he accepts on the offer, he says, I promise I will build a microwave tower.

That means specs. Contract two sets of enforceable promises.

I promise I will build a microwave tower to meet specs.

That's one set. I promise I will give you us $1 million.

That's another set. Okay, so that's contract.

That's what a contract is. That's how a contract is formed.

And when we're thinking about promise.

Contract is an enforceable promise. There can either be one set of promises or they can be two sets of promises and both.

Kinds of contracts can be very useful for businesses, but they need to think about what each of them means.

All right, that's it. Enjoy the reading.

Um, but more importantly, I look forward to seeing you in class.

Uh, you can sign off now. I'm going to go through the equally arduous process of, um.

Getting out of all these screens. All right.


