[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi and welcome to another video.

This one is on contract. Remedy.

And so let me go through the process once again of sharing the screen.

And. We're almost there.

Great. So you will recall that a contract is an enforceable promise or a set of promises.

Promise. Remember how important that word is.

All right. Breach is just a word for the failure to fulfill an enforced promise.

If you don't keep your enforceable promise again.

Promise. Right. So it is really, really critical in determining the damages that will be awarded.

The remedy that will be awarded. For breach of contract.

To understand what is the promise, right.

Okay. There are three general categories of um.

Remedy for contract. For breach of contract. We try to.

This is the order. We try to do them in. You can only do one.

But first we try expectation damages. An expectation.

Damages. Put the breach party in the position they would have been in.

If the promise had been kept. You know what is a promise?

Promise is a communication about the future. I promise I will mow your lawn right?

In the future you will have a mowed lawn. I promise I will give you $1 million.

In the future. You will get $1 million. I promise that if, uh, share price drops below x, I will sell you these shares for Y, right?

If in the future share prices drop below X, then you have the option to buy the opportunity to buy these shares for Y.

Write up a promise about the future.

And when we're talking about contract, that promise means that the promise here will be in a certain place above certain,

you know, position if the promise is kept.

So as expectation images, we try to put the breach party in the position they would have been in if the promise had been kept.

Okay. Well, you know, we can we can measure the amount of money and expectation and revenge damages use money.

We can measure the amount of money in two different ways.

We can say, yeah, if the promise had been kept and you were in this position, the value of that position is.

Be. But the promise wasn't kept.

So the value of where you are is A so B minus A, you get the difference,

and that puts you in the position you'd have been in if the promise had been kept.

The other way we can measure is what's the cost of getting that promise kept?

How much does it cost to to actually get the promise fulfilled?

Right? I promise a million line if you promise to give me 20.

I mean, if you give me $20, right? That's an offer.

Hey, man, it clearly manifested willingness to be bound.

And it creates in you the power of acceptance. You give me $20.

Bang. At that moment, a contract is firm and enforceable.

Promise. If I keep my promise, you'll have a mowed lawn.

Right, but I breach. So what do you get?

Do you get the contract price, which is $20? Do you get the difference in value?

Let's say your lawn would have been worth $10 more.

If I'd mowed it right now it's your lawn is worth $50 unmowed, but its value would be $60 if it were a mode.

You get the $10 that bumps you up to that value. Or see.

No one else in the town is going to mow your lawn for less than $30 $30, and you can get someone to mow your lawn.

Well, we're going to give you see the actual cost of getting your lawn mowed, right?

Not the difference in value, because we can measure the actual cost of getting your lawn mowed.

And that's what we're going to give you. How about this one?

I promise I'll give you a moon rock if you give me $2 million.

Us. All right. And that's cool, because the very reputable firm of Sotheby's has estimated the value of the moon rock is $2 million.

Right? But I breach. Of course I breach, because, uh, the government doesn't hand out moon rocks.

There's no way I can get my hands on a moon rock. All right.

I breach. What do you get? Do you get the contract price of a million? Do you get the difference in value?

If you were holding that moon rock in your hand. Right.

That's a very sophisticated drawing of the moon rock that we've got going here.

You're holding that moon rock in your hand. That's worth 2 million.

What you're holding in your hand right now is nothing that's worth zero.

The difference in value 2 million -0 is 2 million.

You get that? Or do you get the actual cost of getting a moon rock into your hand?

Well, we can't measure that because it's impossible to do.

The government doesn't release moon rocks, right?

So in this case. Because we can't measure the actual cost.

We will give you the difference in value. Reliance damages.

Reliance damages are awarded when expectation damages can't can't be awarded.

Right when we just can't. Calculate them with certainty.

Ah, there's a you know, there's just it's impossible to award them.

And with reliance damages, we're trying to put the breached party into the position they were before the promise was made or the promise was broken.

The breach occurred. There's a little bit of flex there, but don't worry, I'll try and make it simple.

Right? Once again. Right.

We first try to to calculate the actual cost of getting you back the breached party.

Back to where they were. Right. So let's say I promise I will make you a super mutant if you give me $10,000.

Right? An offer to offer. Manifesting.

Honestly, man, I tell you how to accept. Give me $10,000.

All right. You give me $10,000 contract, and I'm done.

I have an enforceable promise out there to make you a super mutant.

Well, yeah, I can't do that. Right.

So I breach. What do you get? To get the contract price.

$10,000. Do you get the difference in value?

The surgery has harmed you, right?

Um. Let's say your body was worth, uh.

You know, 100,000 before the surgery.

I'm making these numbers up completely. It's only worth 80,000.

No. Right. Or do you get the cost of surgery that will restore you to where you were before I made these promises?

Before I breached. And that's going to cost half a million bucks.

And the answer is C because we can measure it.

That's what you will get. It's only if we can't measure that that we would turn to the difference in value.

All right. Specific performance. Specific performance.

We only award when. Expectation.

Images don't work when we can't calculate them, when reliance damages don't work, when we can't calculate them.

Right. And with specific performance, then that's the it's interesting.

That's the one that sounds the closest to actually enforcing the promise because we make the breaching party keep their promise.

I promise I will give you this one of a kind, totally unique car.

If you give me $200,000, you give me $200,000 contract.

I breach. What do you get? Well, it's going to be difficult to calculate expectation damages because.

Excuse me, we don't know the market value of this car. There is no market. It's totally unique.

Unlikely that a firm like Sothebys has got an estimate out there.

Right. And, um, Kim has a different value.

Again, same reason, uh, reliance damages. Similar.

Right. It's going to be very hard to compensate you for, uh, reliance uh, particularly incidental damages.

And so in cases like this, it's very common for the court to award specific performance when the good is unique or the service is unique.

That's when we get it's more likely that we're going to get specific performance.

All right. You've got a reading on limitations on contract damages.

Uh, certainty applies to everything for stability is mostly about, um, incidental or consequential damages.

Damages that flow from the breach. I promise I will mow your lawn.

I don't mow your lawn. Your the party.

The dinner party we're going to have on your lawn. I don't really know what a dinner party is, but it sounds good, right?

It is spoiled because I didn't keep my promise. That's an incidental, consequential damage.

And then mitigation. Mitigation is just a general requirement. All right.

That's it. Enjoy the reading. But more importantly, I really look forward to seeing you in class.

You can sign off now while I go through the awkward process of closing out all these screens and getting back to where I can stop the recording.

Oh, right. There we go.


